---
title: Form
description: Form is a component for creating forms with validation on submit using vee-validate. You need to install vee-validate while using this component.
---

## Import

```ts
import { Form } from '@fewangsit/wangsvue';
```

## Basic
A basic form with submit button and a simple input field.

::component-demo{src="form/Basic"}
::

## Custom Buttons
Customize button labels and template to include only specific actions like Save and Submit.

::component-demo{src="form/CustomButtons"}
::

## Hide Footer
Hide the form footer to manage buttons externally.

::component-demo{src="form/HideFooter"}
::

## Column Layout
Arrange form fields in multiple columns per row.

::component-demo{src="form/Columns"}
::

## Validation on Save
When buttonsTemplate includes 'save', set validateOnSave to true to perform form validation on save button click, just like submit.

::component-demo{src="form/ValidateOnSave"}
::

## Stay After Submit
Include a checkbox to keep the form visible after submission without resetting. The form visibility is handled manually after submit by checking property `stayAfterSubmit`. To hide the checkbox, set hideStayCheckbox to `false` to the Form component.

::component-demo{src="form/StayAfterSubmit"}
::

## Set Values
Use setValues to populate the form with existing data, typically for edit forms.

::component-demo{src="form/SetValues"}
::

## Set Errors
Manually set errors using setErrors, for example after receiving API response errors.

::component-demo{src="form/SetErrors"}
::

## Conditional Fields
Use the formValues from the fields slot to conditionally render input fields based on other field values.

::component-demo{src="form/ConditionalFields"}
::
