---
title: Button
description: Button is an extension to standard button element with icons and theming.
---

## Import

```ts
import { Button } from '@fewangsit/wangsvue';
```

## Examples

### Basic
Text to display on a button is defined with the `label` property.

::component-demo{src="button/Basic"}
::

### Severity

The severity property defines the variant of a button.

::component-demo{src="button/Severity"}
::

### Sizes

Button provides small and large `sizes` as alternatives to the base.

::component-demo{src="button/Size"}
::

### Icons

Icon of a button is specified with `icon` property and position is configured using `iconPos` attribute.

::component-demo{src="button/Icon"}
::

### Icon Only

Buttons can have icons without labels.

::component-demo{src="button/IconOnly"}
::

### Badges

Buttons have built-in badge support with `badge` and `badgeSeverity` properties.

::component-demo{src="button/Badge"}
::

### Tooltip

Tooltip shown on hover the button. It can be configured using prop `tooltip` and `tooltip-pos` for the position.

::component-demo{src="button/Tooltip"}
::


### Loading

Busy state is controlled with the `loading` property.

::component-demo{src="button/Loading"}
::

### Raised

Text buttons can be displayed elevated with the `raised` option.

::component-demo{src="button/Raised"}
::

### Text

Text buttons can be displayed without background using the `text` property.

::component-demo{src="button/Text"}
::

### Outlined

Outlined buttons display a border without a background using the `outlined` property.

::component-demo{src="button/Outlined"}
::

### Template

Custom content inside a button is defined as children using the default slot.

::component-demo{src="button/Template"}
::

## Accessibility

### Screen Reader

Button component renders a native button element that implicitly includes any passed prop. Text to describe the button is defined with the `aria-label` prop, if not present `label` prop is used as the value. If the button is icon only or custom templating is used, it is recommended to use `aria-label` so that screen readers would be able to read the element properly.

### Keyboard Support

| Key | Function |
|-----|----------|
| tab | Moves focus to the button. |
| enter | Activates the button. |
| space | Activates the button. |
